Announce deprecation of AssetManifest.json (#10165)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/asset-manifest-dot-json.md

---
title: Removal of AssetManifest.json
description: >-
    Built Flutter apps will no longer include an AssetManifest.json asset file.
---

## Summary

Flutter apps currently include an asset file named AssetManifest.json. This file
effectively contains a list of assets. Application code can read it using the

> [AssetBundle][] API determine what assets are available at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[AssetBundle][] API to determine what assets are available at runtime.
```

The AssetManifest.json file is an undocumented implementation detail.

> It's also no longer used by the framework, so it will stop being generated in a
> future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's no longer used by the framework, so it will no longer be
generated in a future release.
```

If your application code needs to get a list of available assets, use
the [AssetManifest][] API instead.

## Migration guide

Before:

```dart
import 'dart:convert';
import 'package:flutter/services.dart';

final String assetManifestContent = await rootBundle.loadString('AssetManifest.json');
final Map<Object?, Object?> decodedAssetManifest = 
    json.decode(assetManifestContent) as Map<String, Object?>;
final List<String> assets = decodedAssetManifest.keys.toList().cast();
```

After:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/services.dart';

final AssetManifest assetManifest = await AssetManifest.loadFromAssetBundle(rootBundle);
final List<String> assets = assetManifest.listAssets();
```

## Timeline

AssetManifest.json will no longer be generated started with the third stable
release after 3.20.

> Landed in version: Not yet

Reviewer: What version of main, or beta, is it in?

Landed in stable: Not yet

## References

Relevant issues:

> * [When building a Flutter app, the flutter tool still generates an AssetManifest.json file that is unused by the framework (Issue #143577)][]
> 
> [AssetBundle]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/AssetBundle-class.html
> [AssetManifest]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/AssetManifest-class.html
> [When building a Flutter app, the flutter tool still generates an AssetManifest.json file that is unused by the framework (Issue #143577)]: {{site.repo.flutter}}/issues/143577

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When building a Flutter app, the flutter tool generates an AssetManifest.json file that is unused by the framework [(Issue #143577)][]

[AssetBundle]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/AssetBundle-class.html
[AssetManifest]: {{site.api}}/flutter/services/AssetManifest-class.html
[(Issue #143577)]: {{site.repo.flutter}}/issues/143577
```
